---
nav_title: Markdown
---

# Markdown usage

## About MDX

Content is authored in MDX, a superset of Markdown. MDX extends the capabilities of standard Markdown by allowing the embedding of React components. This enables the creation of interactive and dynamic content within markdown files, making it a powerful tool for building rich and interactive documentation or web pages.

## Plugins

Remark:

- `remark-frontmatter`
  Add support for YAML, TOML, and other frontmatter. Disabled, it doesn't seem to be used since MDX is initialy parsed by Redac.
- `remark-gfm`
  Github Flavor Markdown.
- `remark-mdx-frontmatter`
  Add support for YAML, TOML, and other frontmatter. Disabled, it doesn't seem to be used since MDX is initialy parsed by Redac.
- `@davidcelis/remark-smartypants`
  Translates plain ASCII punctuation characters into “smart” typographic punctuation HTML entities.

Rehype:

- [`rehype-slug`](https://github.com/rehypejs/rehype-slug)   
  Add ids to headings, required by `rehype-autolink-headings`.
- [`rehype-autolink-headings`](https://github.com/rehypejs/rehype-autolink-headings)   
  Add links from headings back to themselves. Styles are configured in `src/app/global/css`.
- `./rehype-highlighter.js`
  Local plugin which use shiki to highlight code blocks.

Shared:

- `mdx-annotations`
  Used by other plugins to get additionnal information.

## Notes

It is possible to access local frontmatter properties inside the Markdown content. However, no solution has been found to handle special characters. As an example, below is the full frontmatter object defined by this page:

```
{JSON.stringify(frontmatter, null, 2)}
```
